he who is emasculated by crushing or
mutilation
shall not enter the Assembly of the Lord
one of illegitimate birth shall not
enter the Assembly of the Lord even to
the tenth generation none of his
descendants shall enter the Assembly of
the Lord an ammonite or Moabite shall
not enter the Assembly of the Lord even
to the tenth generation none of his
descendants shall enter the Assembly of
the Lord for ever because they did not
meet you with bread and water on the
road when you came out of Egypt and
because they hired against you Balaam
the son of Beor from peeth of
mesopotamia to curse you nevertheless
the Lord your God would not listen to
Balaam but the Lord your God turned the
curse into a blessing for you because
the Lord your God loves you
you shall not seek their peace nor their
prosperity all your days forever you
shall not a poorer an Edomite for he is
your brother
you shall not abhor an Egyptian because
you were an alien in his land the
children of the third generation born to
them may enter the Assembly of the Lord
when the army goes out against your
enemies then keep yourself from every
wicked thing if there is any man among
you becomes unclean by some occurrence
in the night then he shall go outside to
the camp he shall not come inside the
camp but it shall be when evening comes
that he shall wash with water and when
the Sun sets he may come into the camp
[Music]
also you shall have a place outside the
camp where you may go out and you shall
have an implement among your equipment
and when you sit down outside you shall
dig with it
and turn and cover your refuse for the
Lord your God walks in the midst of your
camp to deliver you and give your
enemies over to you therefore your camp
shall be holy that he may see no unclean
thing among you and turn away from you
you shall not give back to his master
the slave who has escaped from his
master to you he may dwell with you in
your midst in the place which he chooses
within one of your gates where it seems
best to him you shall not oppress him
there shall be no ritual harlot of the
daughters of Israel or a perverted one
of the sons of Israel
you shall not bring the wages of a
harlot or the price of a dog to the
house of the Lord your God for any vowed
offering for both of these are an
abomination to the Lord your God you
shall not charge interest to your
brother interest on money or food or
anything that is lent out at interest to
a foreigner you may charge interest but
to your brother you shall not charge
interest that the Lord your God may
bless you in all to which you set your
hand in the land which you are entering
to possess when you make a vow to the
Lord your God you shall not delay to pay
it for the Lord your God will surely
require its view and it would be sin to
you but if you abstain from vowing it
shall not be sin to you that which has
gone from your lips you shall keep and
perform or you voluntarily vow to the
Lord your God what you have promised
with your mouth
[Music]
when you come into your neighbors
vineyard you may eat your fill of grapes
at your pleasure but you shall not put
any in your container then you come into
your neighbors standing grain you may
pluck the heads with your hand but you
shall not use a sickle on your
neighbor's standing green